Hypertensive nephrosclerosis
is damage to the kidneys resulting
from chronic high blood pressure.
High blood pressure makes the heart work harder
and can damage blood vessels and organs throughout your body.
It is one of the main causes of kidney failure.
Each of your kidneys contains about a million
tiny filtering units called nephrons.
They filter waste and extra fluid from your body.
High blood pressure can damage
the smallest arteries in the nephrons, called arterioles,
so that they are unable to provide enough
oxygen to the kidney tissues.
Lack of oxygen results in cell death
and ultimately, kidney failure.